---
title: "The Rise of Private Vehicles:Investigating Factors for Mode Shift After COVID-19"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2015-02-01-paper-title-number-3
excerpt: "The COVID-19 pandemic has drastically altered travel behavior, notably increasing private vehicle use. Analyzing data from three 2020 surveys, the New York City Department of Transportation observed a rising trend in private vehicle usage, potentially leading to congestion and pollution in urban areas like New York City.
To understand this shift, a mixed logit model was proposed, revealing socioeconomic status, recent activities, and travel attitudes as key factors influencing private car adoption. Policy recommendations targeting regional differences,
grocery habits, and pedestrian environments were suggested. These findings enhance understanding of pandemic travel behavior, aiding urban planning and transportation management for future crises."
date: 2015-02-01
venue: "103rd Transportation Research Board Meeting (TRB)"
paperurl: "http://dy-chang.github.io/files/chang_2015.pdf"
citation: Chang, D., 2024. The Rise of Private Vehicles:Investigating Factors for Mode Shift After COVID-19. In: Transportation Research Board 103rd Annual Meeting, Washington DC, 2024.
---

Abstract: The COVID-19 pandemic has drastically altered travel behavior, notably increasing private vehicle use. Analyzing data from three 2020 surveys, the New York City Department of Transportation observed a rising trend in private vehicle usage, potentially leading to congestion and pollution in urban areas like New York City. To understand this shift, a mixed logit model was proposed, revealing socioeconomic status, recent activities, and travel attitudes as key factors influencing private car adoption. Policy recommendations targeting regional differences, grocery habits, and pedestrian environments were suggested.
These findings enhance understanding of pandemic travel behavior, aiding urban planning and transportation management for future crises.
